[MUSIC]
So we're gonna go through a few commands.
A few other Linux commands for
accessing files,
doing things to files,
basic file operations.
First, say you want to view a file,
you wanna see what's in a file.
One way to do that is
to use a text editor.
Let's say you got a file, like in my case.
I have a file called testfile,
see how you're doing ls.
And I look in my directories,
and I see three sub-directories.
But I also see this file called testfile,
which notice it colors it differently
than the directories but that's fine.
So if I wanna see that file, one way to do
it would be to just use my text editor.
Type nano testfile.
If I did that, it would open up nano.
And I would see the contents
of the testfile there.
So you can use your text editor.
But sometimes you don't care to do that.
You just want to get
a print out of the file.
So you can use cat.
Cat testfile, you can see there, it just
prints out the contents of the file.
Test, test,
just some junk I put in a file.
So cat is another way of viewing a file.
Cat prints it to the terminal.
Now, there's another command called head,
which prints the first
ten lines of a file.
And then there's last or
tail, which is the same thing,
which prints the last ten lines.
Now head and tail both would do
the exactly the same thing on this
file, right?
Because it's less than ten lines long.
You can modify head and tail.
If you look at head and tail, they have
options to change the number of lines.
So, say I want to look
at the first 20 lines.
You can say head dash 20, I think,
and it'll print out 20 lines,
something like that.
So you can change those,
but that's what they are.
CP, CP is copy.
It stands for copy, for copying a file.
We use that here, so
I get it in my directory, ls.
And you see in the directory,
I've got a testfile.
So, I do a CP.
CP takes two arguments, generally.
One argument is the name
of the original file.
And the second argument is
the name of the new file.
The copy that you want to create.
So, in this case,
I'm saying cp testfile test2.
Then if I type ls, get a directory.
You can see now there
are two files in there.
There's testfile and there's
another file in there called test2.
So it created a new file called test2,
and if I cat testfile, and I cat test2.
You can see that they're exactly the same.
So it just made a copy,
gave it the name test2 that I specified.
Now another command for
manipulating files is MV, stands for move.
So, to move a file, now you can use
that really in one of two ways,
at least two ways.
One way is to change the name of the file,
and
the other way is to
move it to a new place.
So, changing the name of a file,
we're doing that first.
We say ls.
We see there are two files, test2 and
testfile.
All right now,
let's say I want to move testfile.
[COUGH] I want to rename testfile.
So I can say move testfile test1.
It will move testfile to
a new file called test1.
So that all I'm really doing is rename,
right?
And now if I do an ls,
you can see there's test1 and test2.
So there's no longer a testfile in there,
it's now called test1.
It's been moved to a new name.
Now another thing I can use move for
is to move it to a new directory.
So, say I make a directory
called test directory.
Makedir testdir.
And then I type ls, and you see there's
a directory called testdir there.
Then I can do move test2 testdir.
And in that case,
what it does is, it doesn't say,
oh let me rename test2 to be testdir.
It sees that testdir exists and
that it's a directory.
So it says, okay, it takes test2 and
moves it into the testdir directory.
So now after I do that, if I type ls,
you'll see in my current directory.
I don't see test2 anymore.
That's because we moved
to a new directory.
Now if I type cd testdir,
if I change directory to testdir.
And then I type ls,
I can say test2 is now in that directory.
So it successfully moved
it to a new directory.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]